# A9: Main accesses to the database and transactions

This A9 shows the main accesses to the database, including the transactions.

For each transaction, the isolation level is explicitly stated and read-only transactions are identified to improve global performance.

## 1. Main Accesses

> Main accesses to the database.

#### 1.1 Register a new customer.

<table>
	<tr>
		<th> SQL101</th>
		<td> Creates a new customer in the platform </td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td> Web Resource  </td>
		<td class="col1"> <a href="https://github.com/xfontes42/lbaw1723/blob/artefacts/A7/A7.md#r105-register-action">R105</a></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td colspan="2">
			<!-- HTML generated using hilite.me --><div style="background: #ffffff; overflow:auto;width:auto;border:solid gray;border-width:.1em .1em .1em .8em;padding:.2em .6em;"><pre style="margin: 0; line-height: 125%"><span style="color: #008800; font-weight: bold">INSERT</span> <span style="color: #008800; font-weight: bold">INTO</span> <span style="color: #AA6600">&quot;user&quot;</span> <span style="color: #008800; font-weight: bold">VALUES</span> (<span style=" ">$</span>username, <span style=" ">$</span>passw , <span style=" ">$</span>email);
<span style="color: #008800; font-weight: bold">INSERT</span> <span style="color: #008800; font-weight: bold">INTO</span> customer <span style="color: #008800; font-weight: bold">VALUES</span> (<span style=" ">$</span>username, <span style=" ">$</span>name , <span style=" ">$</span>address);
</pre></div>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>


#### 1.2 Search product with FTS.

``` CHECK IF THIS IS OKAY ```
SELECT * 
FROM product P, category C 
WHERE P.search @ plainto_tsquery('english', $search_words) and C.id = P.category_idcat
ORDER BY ts_rank(P.search, plainto_tsquery('english', $search_words)) DESC
LIMIT $max_number_results;


#### 1.3 Get comments of a product.

``` CHECK IF THIS IS OKAY ```
SELECT *
FROM comment C, answer A, "user" U,
WHERE 	C.product_idproduct = $sku 
	AND C.user_username = U.username
	AND ( ( C.id = A.idparent ) OR ( C.id = A.idchild ) OR ( NOT EXISTS ( SELECT * FROM  answer A2 where A2.idparent = C.id ) ) )
ORDER BY C."date" ASC;

#### 1.4 Get flagged comments for moderator.

``` CHECK IF THIS IS OKAY ```
SELECT * 
FROM comment C, "user" U,
WHERE 	C.deleted = false 
	AND C.flagsno > 5,
	AND C.user_username = U.username;


## 2. Transactions

#### --------------------------------------------------------------------------

``` CHECK IF THIS IS OKAY ```
T01 - Insert a new customer
Isolation Level - SERIALIZABLE
Justification - When a customer is created there is an insert at the User table and at the Customer table and any operation in between must be such that there aren't any Phantom Reads.
SQL-

BEGIN TRANSACTION;
SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION SERIALIZABLE

--Insert User
INSERT INTO "user" VALUES ($username, $password, $email);

--Insert Customer
INSERT INTO customer VALUES ($username, $name, $address);

COMMIT;

#### --------------------------------------------------------------------------
``` CHECK IF THIS IS OKAY ```
TO2 - Get customer info
Isolation Level - READ UNCOMMITTED READONLY
Justification - When a customer views it's profile, it isn't very worrysome if not all of their information is updated. As such, we don't mind dirty reads. 
SQL-
BEGIN TRANSACTION;
SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION READ UNCOMMITTED READ ONLY

-- Get customer info
SELECT * 
FROM "user" U, customer C
WHERE 	U.username = $username
	AND	U.username = C.username;

-- Get customer purchases
SELECT * 
FROM purchase PUR, purchase_product PURPRO, product PRO
WHERE	PUR.customer_username = $username
	AND PUR.id = PURPRO.purchase_idpurchase
	AND PURPRO.product_idproduct = PRO.sku
ORDER BY PUR."date" DESC

-- Get customer favorites
SELECT *
FROM product P, favorite F
WHERE 	F.customer_username = $username
	AND	P.sku = F.product_idproduct;

COMMIT;


#### --------------------------------------------------------------------------
``` CHECK IF THIS IS OKAY ```
TO3 - Get products for main page
Isolation Level - READ COMMITED READONLY
Justification - When a customer is in the homepage we want to display discounted and recommended products and allow the user to search products but we don't want dirty reads to happen because products might be being updated.

SQL- 
BEGIN TRANSACTION;
SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION READ COMMITTED READ ONLY

-- Get discounted products
SELECT * , (P.price - P.discountprice)/P.price AS rank 
FROM product P
WHERE 	P.discountprice IS NOT NULL
ORDER BY rank DESC
LIMIT $limit;

-- Get products with higher rating
SELECT *
FROM product P
ORDER BY rating DESC
LIMIT $limit;

-- Get best selling products
SELECT *, SUM(PP.quantity) as sumQ
FROM product P, purchase_product PP
WHERE P.sku = PP.product_idproduct
GROUP BY P.sku
ORDER BY sumQ DESC
LIMIT $limit;

COMMIT;





> Transactions needed to assure the integrity of the data.

| SQL Reference   | Transaction Name                    |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Justification   | Justification for the transaction.  |
| Isolation level | Isolation level of the transaction. |
| `Complete SQL Code`                                   |

...

## Revision history

<br>
GROUP1723, 25/04/2018
<br>
<br>

> Ana Cláudia Fonseca Santos, up200700742@fe.up.pt

> Eduardo de Mendonça Rodrigues Salgado Ramos, up201505779@fe.up.pt

> Mariana Lopes da Silva, up201506197@fe.up.pt

> Xavier Reis Fontes, up201503145@fe.up.pt
