# A11: Presentation
 
> This artefact (A11 - Product Presentation) must be published as a web page on the group's GitHub account.
 
## 1. Product presentation
 
> Brief presentation of the product and its main features (2 paragraphs max).

This product intends to specify, develop and promote an online shopping system. This shop specializes in electronic components and products. The platform has an intuitive design allowing users to freely explore the content. The search is customizable and the platform includes product categories to facilitate navigation. The search engines is fast and assertive. Users are able to buy, rate, comment on products and choose their favorite products. Similar products can be compared and products listing can be ordered as wished. A product configurator is also available to help users choose and swap components for a system according to their needs and visualize the final system cost.

Users are separated into groups with different permissions. There are administration usage profiles, with all the privileges of access and modification. There  are also registered users to buy products that can see the content of the platform and moderators with privileges of access to enter new products and check commentaries to filter out improper behaviour.
 
> URL to the product: http://lbaw17GG.lbaw-prod.fe.up.pt
 
## 2. Video presentation
 
> Screenshot of the video plus link to the video (e.g. YouTube, Vimeo, personal account, etc).
> The video must not exceed 2 minutes.

[Video](https://youtu.be/F8kiHiW1qB0)
 
## 3. Contacts
 
<br>
GROUP1723, 01/06/2018
<br>
<br>

> Ana Cláudia Fonseca Santos, up200700742@fe.up.pt

> Eduardo de Mendonça Rodrigues Salgado Ramos, up201505779@fe.up.pt

> Mariana Lopes da Silva, up201506197@fe.up.pt

> Xavier Reis Fontes, up201503145@fe.up.pt
