# A10: Product
 
> Brief presentation of the product developed.
 
## 1. Installation
 
> Link to the Github release with the final version of the code.
> Full Docker command to test the group's Docker Hub image using the DBM database.
 
 
## 2. Usage
 
> URL to the product: http://lbaw17GG.lbaw-prod.fe.up.pt
 
### 2.1. Administration Credentials
 
> Administration URL: URL
 
| Username | Password |
| -------- | -------- |
| admin    | password |
 
### 2.2. User Credentials
 
| Type          | Username  | Password |
| ------------- | --------- | -------- |
| basic account | user 1    | password |
| news editor   | user 1    | password |
 
 
## 3. Application Help
 
> Describe where help has been implemented, pointing to working examples.
 
 
## 4. Input Validation
 
> Describe how input data was validates, and provide examples to scenarios using HTML validation and server-side validation.
 
 
## 5. Check Accessibility and Usability
 
> Provide the results of accessibility and usability tests (link to the PDFs on the group's Github account), using respectively the following checklists:
> https://ux.sapo.pt/checklists/acessibilidade/
> https://ux.sapo.pt/checklists/usabilidade/
 
 
## 6. HTML & CSS Validation
 
> Provide the results (link to the PDFs on the group's Github account) of the validation of the HTML and CSS code using the following tools:
> HTML: https://validator.w3.org/nu/
> https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/
 
 
## 7. Revisions to the Project
 
> Describe the revisions made to the project since the requirements specification stage.
 
 
## 8. Implementation Details
 
> Detail the status of the implementation of each user story.
> Also include the new user stories that were created during the project.
 
| US Identifier | Name    | Priority                       | Team members               | State  |
| ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------ | -------------------------- | ------ |
| US 1          | US Name | Mandatory; Important; Optional | John Silva, Ana Sousa ...  |  100%  |
| US 2          | US Name | Mandatory; Important; Optional | John Silva                 |   75%  | 
 
 
 
<br>
GROUP1723, 21/05/2018
<br>
<br>

> Ana Cláudia Fonseca Santos, up200700742@fe.up.pt

> Eduardo de Mendonça Rodrigues Salgado Ramos, up201505779@fe.up.pt

> Mariana Lopes da Silva, up201506197@fe.up.pt

> Xavier Reis Fontes, up201503145@fe.up.pt
