# A6: Indexes, triggers, user functions and population

## 1. Database Workload

> A study of the predicted system load (database load), organized in subsections.

### 1.1. Tuple Estimation

> Estimate of tuples at each relation.


| Relation reference | Relation Name | Order of magnitude        | Estimated growth |
| ------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------- |
| R01                | Table1        | units|dozens|hundreds|etc | order per time   |
| R02                | Table2        | units|dozens|hundreds|etc | dozens per month |
| R03                | Table3        | units|dozens|hundreds|etc | hundreds per day |
| R04                | Table4        | units|dozens|hundreds|etc | no growth        |


### 1.2. Frequent Queries

> Most important queries (SELECT) and their frequency.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Query reference</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Query description</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Query frequency</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
      <samp>
        SELECT name, email, obs, img
          FROM "user"
          WHERE "user".id = $userId;
      </samp>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### 1.3. Frequent Modifications

> Most important updates (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE) and their frequency.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Query reference</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Query description</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Query frequency</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
    <samp>
    UPDATE "user"
      SET email = $email, name = $email
      WHERE id = $id;
    </samp>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## 2. Proposed Indices

### 2.1. Performance Indices

> Indices proposed to improve performance of the identified queries.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Index reference</th>
    <td>IDX01</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Related queries</th>
    <td>SELECT01</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Index relation</th>
    <td>user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Index attribute</th>
    <td>email</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Index type</th>
    <td>Hash</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Cardinality</th>
    <td>High</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Clustering</th>
    <td>No</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Justification</th>
    <td>Query SELECT01 has to be fast as it is executed many times; doesn't need range query support; cardinality is high because email is an unique key; it's not a good candidate for clustering.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
    <samp>
    CREATE INDEX email_user ON "user" USING hash (email);
    </samp>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### 2.2. Full-text Search Indices

> The system being developed must provide full-text search features supported by PostgreSQL. Thus, it is necessary to specify the fields where full-text search will be available and the associated setup, namely all necessary configurations, indexes definitions and other relevant details.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Index reference</th>
    <td>IDX01</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Related queries</th>
    <td>SELECT01</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Index relation</th>
    <td>user</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Index attribute</th>
    <td>email</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Index type</th>
    <td>GiST</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Clustering</th>
    <td>No</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Justification</th>
    <td>
      To improve the performance of full text searches while searching for works and their titles; GiST because it's better for dynamic data.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
    <samp>
    CREATE INDEX search_idx ON WORK USING GIST (to_tsvector('english', title)
    </samp>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## 3. Triggers

> User-defined functions and trigger procedures that add control structures to the SQL language or perform complex computations, are identified and described to be trusted by the database server. Every kind of function (SQL functions, Stored procedures, Trigger procedures) can take base types, composite types, or combinations of these as arguments (parameters). In addition, every kind of function can return a base type or a composite type. Functions can also be defined to return sets of base or composite values.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Trigger reference</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Trigger description</th>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">
    <samp>
    CREATE FUNCTION loan_item() RETURNS TRIGGER AS
$BODY$
BEGIN
  IF EXISTS (SELECT * FROM loan WHERE NEW.id_item = id_user AND "end" > NEW.start) THEN
    RAISE EXCEPTION 'An item can only be loaned to one user in every moment.';
  END IF;
  RETURN NEW;
END
$BODY$
LANGUAGE plpgsql;

CREATE TRIGGER loan_item
  BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE ON loan
  FOR EACH ROW
    EXECUTE PROCEDURE loan_item();
    </samp>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


## 4. Complete SQL Code

> The database script must also include the SQL to populate a database with test data with an amount of tuples suitable for testing and with plausible values for the fields of the database.
> This code should also be included in the group's github repository as an SQL script, and a link include here.


## Revision history

***

<br>
GROUP1723, 13/03/2018
<br>
<br>

> Ana Cláudia Fonseca Santos, up200700742@fe.up.pt

> Eduardo de Mendonça Rodrigues Salgado Ramos, up201505779@fe.up.pt

> Mariana Lopes da Silva, up201506197@fe.up.pt

> Xavier Reis Fontes, up201503145@fe.up.pt
